# Cgroups in Aurae

We need a way to map `processes` to `cgroups` or in Aurae parlance `executables` to `cells`. 

Given a cgroup `my-cell` and two nested processes:

 - `sleep 500` with the name `sleep-500`
 - `sleep 60` with the name `sleep-60`

How do we identify which PID to send signals to if the user intends to start/stop either the `sleep-500` or the `sleep-60` process within the cell?

### Research with Systemd

The way `systemd` manages this is by storing the Unit file contents in memory during the duration of the process. This is why `systemd daemon-reload` must be executed before changes to the current unit file are effective. The mapping of the configuration in the Unit file to the sub-processes is managed in memory.

### Differences from Systemd

We would like to be able to start and stop arbitrary processes within a given cell. We currently believe that systemd creates a cgroup for each service, and the only way to "add" nested processes to a cgroup is by restarting the service with a hook to launch the intended nested process.

### Option 1) The "/var/run/aurae/cells" Way

We create a new directory upon starting the daemon called `/var/run/aurae/cells` that we assume ownership of. We bake in the initialization setup in the same way we manage `/var/run/aurae.sock`. 

For every cell that is allocated we also create a file:

``` 
/var/run/aurae/cells/my-cell
```

We use the [pre_exec](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/os/unix/process/trait.CommandExt.html#tymethod.pre_exec) function to create a file descriptor for each nested process that points back to the cell file. 
The children will store the file descriptors and not the parent.


_Author: [Kris Nóva](https://github.com/krisnova)_
